
> So this commenter was perhaps a little harsh, but I consistently
>. feel like your blogs/posts sound a bit overblown for your level. For
> example you talk about black "ripping apart white's shape" in the
> first diagram, but that's not at all what happens.

Your feelings and your example do not align: if that is not what
happens, then that is not what happens regardless of the level of the
player. I think what you are saying is that I am overestimating the
impact of the action because I am too weak to see that it not as big a
deal as I am claiming it to be.

That actually has very little do with my level and more about my
excitement. When I returned to Go 3-4 months ago, I could not find
anyone to review my games and I wasnt ready to pay someone to have
limited time with them. Then someone introduced me to Katago and now I
can get all the reviews I want any time... and from something stronger
than any teacher.... and when I see some of the things I missed, I am
stunned at the power of the stones.

Also, there is something called "hyperbole" which is not used in
scientific or legal settings, but can be very effective at conveying
feeling. 

> Black could be considered to be exploiting the weakness by pushing
  into the knight's move, but it simply allows black to make a nice
  base/territory with a corner group that could otherwise be in
  danger, and the weakness in white's shape means white must answer
  relatively passively. White will only get "ripped apart" in any
  sense if white is foolish enough to attempt to hold a surround or
  cut and fight in spite of the weakness.

And what is an 8k but a fool? On many of the errors I find, I play
naive responses where I try to push back against the sente move and
end up "ripped apart". Yes, it would not happen against you but
against another go hacker, it happens all day and all night. 

> In a lot of these, I think you overgeneralize or over-describe
  things you've gotten from AI analysis, but realistically you are
  nowhere near strong enough to understand most of what the AI can
  tell you on your own.

> Let's be clear, I'm not strong enough at 2d to understand most of
  what the AI is telling me on my own without a lot of caveats.

OK, great that makes 2 people who are considerably weaker than the AI
and neither of whom has 5000 move lookahead like the AI does. 

> So you say a fair bit of stuff that's not quite right, or even
  wrong, but with an affect of "I have learned the truth and here it
  is".

If it's wrong, correct it immediately. I would say I am a scientist in
my lab, suggesting a hypothesis based on evidence and
experimentation. An honest scientist only says "current data
suggests..." a person involved in scientism says "trust the
science. if you doubt the science, you doubt me. and if you doubt me,
you doubt the truth"..

I'm sorry if you got the wrong impression. Feel free to feedback.

> It's one thing to do this when you are fairly strong, or writing in
  collaboration with a strong player. I try not to write that way, and
  I think you'll find that if you read go material by other players a
  lot stronger than you are, but not high-dan or pro, you'll find them
  to have much less of this.

Again, that has to do with excitement. About a new discovery. About
how much deeper this game is than the silly war games I was wasting my
time with. It has nothing to do with trying to play expert. 

> I know it's considered good style in the general writing world to
  display confidence and just say stuff straight out, whether you're
  really sure enough to mean it that way or not, and I'm guessing
  that's where this is coming from.

What scientist at the end of his paper is hemming and hawwing and
dropping his eyes and playing meek and humble? Likewise no scientist
should be puffing out his chest and proclaiming he has the final
answer. Neither is acceptable.

Nonetheless, when I'm writing these posts, I'm eager to get back on
the Goban and put these experiments back into action and win where I
once lost. And each new chance to put the opponent on the defensive
gets me amped up and ready for a new game.

> That said, within the go world, and pretty much any other esoteric
  domain where there is a clear hierarchy of understanding, you have
  to earn the ability to speak that way by mastery of the material if
  you don't want to turn off your audience. You're not yet strong
  enough even to know when you have something close to a true
  understanding of even a limited area/position vs. having a potential
  insight while feeling your way around the elephant blindfolded.

My first grade teacher Mrs. Bradshaw did a great job even though she
could not teach 12 grade math or calculus or anything else. This is an
interesting point: who should be teaching? Only experts? Maybe they
know too much or are too talented? Shygost is a widely loved go
teacher, but he is 6 dan. But maybe he is better for the baby steps?

What I know is that I'm noticing shapes and I know that Katago is not
lying to me. Katago is the expert. I'm converting Katago into
8k-ese... and sometimes that leads to new terminology that I'm open to
have corrected into standard terminology.

> And that's why this guy is not the only one who is rankled by your
  posts, just a little bit ruder/harsher about expressing it.

That's fine. They can block a user. I just blocked 2 people in this
thread. 

> I really like a lot of what you are doing, and I think it's 100%
  reasonable for weaker players to write about their learning
  experience. You absolutely don't have to be a strong player to do
  that successfully. But I think a little more humility and
  questioning might be in order, in place of speaking like an
  instructor to students, at least until you get to a place where you
  fully understand what you're talking about.

I think you are getting the wrong idea about how I'm positioning
myself.

Also note that regardless of what you do, someone is going to
criticize you and feel there is something wrong.

> But the subject of most of your recent posts is moderately difficult
  to difficult late fuseki and middle game positions that a lot of dan
  players will mess up. You're going by what the AI says, and trying
  to weave a narrative around it without having a deep understanding
  of the tactics and positional judgement that inform those AI
  recommendations.

And you would be doing the same thing, since you only have maybe a
10-20 move lookahead and the AI has 5 to 10 orders of magnitude more.

> Or in many cases, having a good appreciation of how nearly
  inconsequential in human terms a small difference in AI point or win
  expectation is.

Yes that comes from now understanding Katago very well... I probably
should sit down and learn it better.

> I don't want you to stop writing about this stuff, and the danger of
  a response like this is that you'll either harden yourself to
  criticism entirely, or throw your hands up and stop writing about go
  at all.

Thank you for the encouragement.

> i really enjoy the kinds of questions you are posing and hope you'll
  keep writing! But tone down the expert instructor rhetoric, and
  recognize that just because you can read an AI recommendation does
  NOT mean that you really understand what's going on in a position.

I might try being less exuberant and more dry. But I like juicy.

> Again, at 2d, at least half the time I don't initially understand
  the AI recommendation, and it takes a lot of playing around to get
  it, and a significant fraction of those, I eventually have to throw
  up my hands and admit that it's just beyond me why the AI wants this
  move instead of that move, and ask a strong player, or just move on
  with what I have learned.

Whoever you ask will get their head handed to them by AI as well.

